VVibeMatch – Core System Architecture
Gale-Based Multi-Stage Matching Engine
1. Introduction

VibeMatch is a hierarchical matchmaking system that combines vector-based user representation, behavioral clustering, and game-theoretic optimization with stable matching algorithms.

The system is designed to operate in multiple stages, beginning with raw user data collection and evolving into a dynamic, self-correcting matching ecosystem. At its core, the system integrates:

Multi-modal feature extraction
Behavior-driven clustering
Set-level and individual-level stable matching
Continuous learning through interaction feedback
2. Data Acquisition Layer

Upon user registration, the system collects structured and unstructured data directly from the user. No third-party integrations are required.

2.1 Music Data
Artist selection via MusicBrainz search
Genre, mood, and era preferences
2.2 Profile Data
Photo uploads (minimum 2, maximum 6)
Free-text biography
2.3 Structured Responses
Music-based personality questionnaire (10–15 prompts)
2.4 Contextual Metadata
Location (city-level, opt-in)
Intent (friends, dating, or both)

All data is self-reported and fully owned within the system.

3. Feature Extraction Layer

Each data modality is transformed into a numerical representation suitable for similarity computation and downstream modeling.

3.1 Music Vector

Generated using sentence embeddings from structured and semi-structured music preferences.

Input: artists, genres, moods, era
Model: sentence transformer
Output: reduced-dimensional embedding
3.2 Face Embedding

Derived from uploaded user images.

Model: facial embedding network
Aggregation: mean vector across all images
Purpose: visual representation for attractiveness and similarity
3.3 Personality Vector

Constructed from textual inputs and questionnaire responses.

Input: biography and quiz answers
Processing: text embedding + personality trait extraction
Output: combined vector representation
3.4 Behavior Vector

Generated over time from user interactions.

Includes engagement patterns, selectivity, responsiveness, and activity distribution
Continuously updated as new behavioral data is observed
4. Profile Representation

All extracted vectors are combined into a unified profile representation.

profile_vector =
    concatenate(
        weighted_music_vector,
        weighted_personality_vector,
        weighted_face_vector,
        weighted_behavior_vector
    )

This vector serves as the primary representation of the user for similarity search and ranking.

5. Preference Modeling

User preference is inferred from observed behavior rather than declared attributes.

A preference vector is constructed as the average representation of profiles a user has positively interacted with.

preference_vector(user) =
    mean(profile_vectors of liked_profiles)

This representation captures implicit attraction patterns and is used for clustering and compatibility estimation.

6. Behavioral Clustering

Users are grouped into behavioral sets based on their preference vectors.

6.1 Clustering Method

Density-based clustering is used to identify natural groupings in preference space.

No predefined number of clusters
Outlier detection supported
Clusters represent shared attraction patterns
6.2 Set Constraints
Minimum size threshold to ensure sufficient interaction density
Maximum size threshold to maintain specificity
Dynamic merging and splitting applied as needed

Each cluster represents a “behavioral set” defined by what its members tend to prefer.

7. Multiset Rating System

Each user is assigned a score relative to every behavioral set.

This replaces global attractiveness scoring with context-specific desirability.

7.1 Rating Components
Observed interaction rate from members of the set
Relative ranking within the set (Elo-based)
Similarity to the set’s aggregate preference vector
7.2 Output

A mapping of user desirability across all sets:

user_rating = {
    set_1: score,
    set_2: score,
    ...
}

This enables nuanced evaluation of how different groups perceive the same user.

8. Cross-Set Compatibility

Compatibility between behavioral sets is computed using mutual preference alignment.

8.1 Computation
Compare each set’s preference vector with the other set’s member profile vector
Evaluate in both directions
8.2 Mutual Score
mutual_score =
    harmonic_mean(
        similarity(set_A_preferences, set_B_profiles),
        similarity(set_B_preferences, set_A_profiles)
    )

The harmonic mean penalizes asymmetric attraction and prioritizes balanced compatibility.

9. Set-Level Stable Matching

Stable matching is first performed at the set level.

9.1 Process
Each set ranks other sets based on mutual compatibility
A stable matching algorithm is applied to produce pairings between sets
9.2 Outcome
Matched pairs of sets with high mutual compatibility
Stability ensures no pair of sets would prefer each other over their assigned match
10. Individual-Level Matching

Within each matched set pair, individual users are matched.

10.1 Process
Each user ranks candidates in the paired set
Rankings are based on a composite compatibility function
10.2 Compatibility Function
individual_score =
    weighted_music_similarity
  + weighted_personality_similarity
  + cross_set_rating_component
  + contextual_factors
10.3 Outcome

Stable user-to-user matches within each set pairing.

11. Game-Theoretic Optimization Layer

The system incorporates mechanisms to maintain signal quality and marketplace balance.

11.1 Costly Signaling

Limited high-impact actions (e.g., premium signals) increase information quality.

11.2 Selectivity Adjustment

User visibility and influence are adjusted based on interaction patterns.

11.3 Feed Balancing

User feeds are constructed to balance aspirational, peer, and confidence-building matches.

11.4 Exploration vs Exploitation

A probabilistic strategy balances discovery of new patterns with reinforcement of known preferences.

12. Continuous Learning and Adaptation

The system continuously monitors user behavior for changes in preference.

12.1 Preference Shift Detection
shift =
    1 - similarity(recent_preference_vector, historical_preference_vector)
12.2 Response
Reassignment to a more appropriate behavioral set
Recalculation of ratings and compatibility
13. Computational Characteristics

The system is designed for scalability through hierarchical decomposition.

Clustering: batch processing
Rating computation: proportional to users × sets
Matching: reduced complexity via set partitioning
Retrieval: vector search optimized with indexing

This ensures tractability even at large scale.

14. Authentication Flow

The system uses token-based authentication.

14.1 Process
User registers or logs in
Server issues a signed access token
Client includes token in request headers
Server validates token and resolves user identity
Authenticated user context is injected into protected routes

This enables stateless, secure request handling.

15. Conclusion

The VibeMatch system combines vector embeddings, behavioral clustering, and stable matching theory into a unified architecture. By modeling both identity and preference while continuously adapting to user behavior, the system is designed to produce stable, high-quality matches at scale.