
VibeMatch – Multi-Vector Matching System
Product Requirements Document (PRD)
1. Introduction

VibeMatch is a matchmaking system designed to move beyond single-signal similarity models and instead leverage a multi-vector architecture. The system aims to improve match quality by combining multiple dimensions of user data, including identity, preferences, and behavior.

This document defines the structure, components, and evolution of the matching system.

2. Problem Statement

Traditional matching systems often rely on limited signals such as shared interests or demographic similarity. In the context of music-based matching, relying solely on artist or genre similarity is insufficient to produce meaningful compatibility.

Users with similar tastes may still be incompatible due to differences in personality, intent, or behavioral patterns. Therefore, a more comprehensive representation of users is required.

3. System Overview

The system is based on a modular, multi-vector architecture. Each user is represented through multiple vectors, each capturing a distinct aspect of their profile. Matching is computed through a weighted combination of these vectors rather than a single similarity score.

The system distinguishes between:

Identity: attributes that describe the user
Preferences: attributes that describe what the user is attracted to
Behavior: patterns derived from user interactions over time
4. Vector Architecture
4.1 Music Vector

The music vector represents the user’s musical identity. It is designed to go beyond basic artist and genre data by incorporating contextual and behavioral aspects of music consumption.

Components may include:

Favorite artists and genres
Mood preferences
Era preferences
Energy levels
Discovery style (e.g., mainstream vs. niche)
Listening contexts (e.g., gym, studying, social settings)
Structured quiz responses
Optional free-text inputs such as favorite lyrics or tracks

This vector is used primarily during the cold-start phase.

4.2 Personality Vector

The personality vector captures non-musical aspects of the user’s identity.

Components may include:

Profile biography (text embedding)
Structured prompts (e.g., values, lifestyle, interests)
Lifestyle and personality tags
Communication style
Humor style
Relationship intent
4.3 Preference Vector

The preference vector represents the user’s attraction patterns. It is distinct from identity and is critical for effective matching.

Initial (explicit) components:

Preferred personality or “vibe” traits
Preferred music-related traits in others
Dealbreakers
Age and distance preferences

Learned (implicit) components:

Derived from swipe and interaction behavior
Response patterns
Match outcomes
4.4 Behavior Vector

The behavior vector is generated from user activity and is not directly collected during onboarding.

Signals may include:

Like and pass rates
Response rates
Time spent per profile
Swipe speed
Active hours
Engagement consistency
Reciprocity of matches
4.5 Master Profile Vector

The master profile vector is a composite representation of user identity. It aggregates identity-related vectors while keeping preference data logically separate.

Conceptually:

master_profile_vector = combine(music_vector, personality_vector, derived_behavior_features)
5. Matching Model
5.1 Compatibility Function

Matching is computed using a weighted function that incorporates multiple dimensions:

compatibility_score(A, B) =
    w1 * identity_similarity(A, B)
  + w2 * preference_fit(A → B)
  + w3 * preference_fit(B → A)
  + w4 * behavior_alignment
  + constraint_filters

Where:

Identity similarity compares master profile vectors
Preference fit evaluates how well one user matches another’s preferences
Behavior alignment captures interaction compatibility
Constraint filters include location, activity level, and intent
5.2 Key Characteristics
Matching is bidirectional and considers both users’ preferences
High similarity in a single vector (e.g., music) is not sufficient
Preference alignment is prioritized over raw similarity
6. Clustering Strategy

User clustering is based primarily on preference behavior rather than static attributes.

Clusters are formed using:

Observed interaction patterns
Consistent attraction signals
Engagement outcomes

This allows the system to group users based on whom they tend to prefer, rather than who they are in isolation.

7. System Evolution
Phase 1: Cold Start
Implement the initial music vector
Enable basic similarity-based matching
Phase 2: Music Enrichment
Expand music features with contextual attributes such as mood, era, and usage context
Phase 3: Initial Matching Model
Deploy a basic matching system using music similarity
Phase 4: Preference Learning
Introduce interaction mechanisms (e.g., swiping)
Begin constructing the preference vector
Phase 5: Behavioral Modeling
Generate behavior vectors from user activity
Incorporate engagement metrics
Phase 6: Full Multi-Vector Matching
Integrate all vectors into the compatibility function
Apply weighting strategies and system-level optimizations
8. Data Collection Strategy

The system prioritizes high-signal data while minimizing user friction during onboarding.

Initial data collection should focus on:

Core music preferences with contextual enrichment
A limited set of personality indicators
Basic preference inputs such as intent and distance

Behavioral and preference learning components are introduced progressively through user interaction.

9. Design Considerations
Maintain clear separation between vector types
Ensure modularity to allow independent evolution of components
Avoid overloading any single vector with unrelated data
Prioritize data quality over quantity
Enable continuous improvement through behavioral feedback
10. Conclusion

VibeMatch is designed as a multi-vector matchmaking system that evolves from a music-based cold start into a behavior-driven recommendation engine. By separating identity, preference, and behavioral signals, the system aims to produce more accurate and meaningful matches over time.